When Officer KD6-3.7, a Nexus-9 replicant built for the sole purpose of hunting down and "retiring'' rogue replicants, learns that his memory involving a wooden horse, which is supposedly artificial (like any other memory fragments implanted into the brain of a replicant), is, in-fact, real, he screams from existential frustration. It makes him question everything about himself.

Hidden behind his frustration, however, lies a tinge of hope. Officer K leads a fairly lonely life, his only company being a hologram that is overtly cheerful and who he is, as strange as it sounds, in love with. His job of destroying replicants has made him distant from his own life.

He is loyal to his cold, human manager; he follows all her orders blindly until he realizes that there's a chance that he wasn't built and assembled,that he was birthed out of love and affection. 

He feels alive in a way he never has before. The hologram pushes him to believe that he has always mattered and that it always knew he was special.

The hope, however, disappears when he realizes that the memory that was implanted in him, although real, was never his; that it was just a cruel mistake on life’s part. He was never the miraculous child born to a replicant and a human. The constant optimism that his hologram companion kept feeding him was just a corporate algorithm programmed to spew what its master wants to hear and feel. It was just another machine doing what it was designed to do. 

He, however, soars in spite of life's betrayal. Although his birth and the purpose assigned to him by his corporate masters isn’t special or right, he realizes that it’s up to him to change it by performing something human and selfless, irrespective of how dangerous it is. It isn’t too late to redeem himself, to raise himself to someone of value.

He risks his own life to save someone else's, for the happiness of the actual "Chosen One", for a revolution. He makes himself important to someone, expecting nothing in return. 

As he lies down in the snow, covered in wounds, he is drained, but for the first time in his life, he feels satisfied with his actions, even though he ends up being a mere cog in the machine.